Rewrite (#2)
mihaibudiu/sigmod-rh: relational.tex

\section{IVM for the Relational Algebra}\label{sec:relational}

In this section we apply the results on incremental computation to
relational databases.  As explained in the introduction, our goal is
to efficiently compute the incremental version of any relational query
$Q$.

However, we face a technical problem: we said that streams require
their values to belong to a commutative groups, and relational
databases in general are \emph{not} commutative groups, since they
operate on sets.  Fortunately, there is a well-known tool in the
database literature which converts set operations into group
operations by using \zrs (also called z-relations~\cite{green-tcs11})
to represent sets.

\subsection{\zrs}

\zrs generalize database tables: think of a \zr as a table where each
row has an associated integer weight, possibly negative.  This weight

> tells us \emph{how many times} the row belongs to the table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
indicates \emph{how many times} the row occurs to the table.
```

\end{tikzpicture}
&
\parbox[b][][t]{\commentsize}{
  Select each value separately.  If the value is selected preserve the

>   weigth, else make the weight 0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  weight, else make the weight 0.
```

    \node[block, right of=I] (z) {$\zm$};
    \node[block, below of=z, node distance=.8cm] (H) {$\lift{H}$};
    \node[right of=H] (output) {$\Delta o$};
    \draw[->>] (input) -- node (mid) {} (I);
    \draw[->>] (I) -- (z);
    \draw[->>] (mid.center) |- (H);
    \draw[->>] (z) -- node (i) [right] {$i$} (H);
    \draw[->>] (H) -- (output);
\end{tikzpicture}
\end{tabular}

%\noindent where $H: \Z[A] \times \Z[A] \to \Z[A]$ is defined as: \\
%$$
%H(i, d)[x] \defn
%\begin{cases}
%-1 & \mbox{if } i[x] > 0 \mbox{ and } (i + d)[x] \leq 0 \\
%1  & \mbox{if } i[x] \leq 0 \mbox{ and } (i + d)[x] > 0 \\
%0  & \mbox{otherwise} \\
%\end{cases}
%$$
%\end{proposition}

Here is the intuition why $\distinct$ is efficiently
incrementalizable: consider a row that is inserted in the input of a
$\distinct$ operator.  How does the output change?  If the row was not
in the prior full input table, then it will appear with weight 1 in
the output change.  Otherwise an empty output is produced.  Only
tuples that appear in the input change $\Delta d$ can appear in the

> output change $\Delta o$.  The implementation needs to maintain the

Reviewer: maybe clarify this point a bit more: 

Only tuples that appear in the input change $\Delta d$ can appear in the output change $\Delta o$ and hence the operator only needs to perform $|Delta d|$ lookups.
